
XBATTLE 5.4.1 / XBattleAI 1.2.x INSTALLATION



0) PRELIMINARY

 Xbattle should be pretty easy and straightforward to compile as it uses GNU
 Autoconf to automatically create a Makefile customized for your system.
 Xbattle doesn't use any particularly strange libraries or have a long list
 of dependencies.  It currently requires POSIX threads and X11 libraries.
 These should exist on most Unix-like systems.


1) HOW TO CONFIGURE XBATTLE

 In the instructions below, the % symbol represents your command prompt.
 You do not need to type it literally :)

 All required libraries should be located by the configure script.  If the
 X11 libraries are not found, you may specify their location when running
 configure with the following command line options:

   --x-includes=DIR
   --x-libraries=DIR

 The configure script will automatically select a compiler.  It will use gcc
 if it is installed.  You may override this selection by setting the CC
 environmental variable, or if you are using a Bourne derived shell, by
 specifying the variable before the command (CC=/opt/comp/bin/cc ./configure).

 You may also specify the desired location for the installation of xbattle
 with the option:

   --prefix=DIR

 If you do not use this option, xbattle will default to using /usr/local.
 You may also wish to disable one or more of these game options (they are
 enabled by default):

   --disable-hills-and-forest
   --enable-hills-and-forest
       Enables support for maps using both forest and hills. With this
       option, you will be able to create maps with both terrains. This is
       needed to play the Gauntlet Campaign.  Auto-generated maps do not
       use hills and forests at the same time yet.

   --disable-base-side
   --enable-base-side
       Enable support for maps using side owned towns. With this option, you
       will be able to create maps with towns, villages or cities which
       produce troops for one side only. These towns are displayed using a
       color similar to the owning side. This is needed to play the Gauntlet
       Campaign.

   --disable-ai2-learning
   --enable-ai2-learning
       Enables learning in AI algorithm 2.

 Now generate a Makefile by running the configure script with any options
 from above:
   % ./configure --prefix=/usr/local/xbattle


2) HOW TO COMPILE XBATTLE

   After configuring xbattle ...

   Just type:
     % make

   Now sit back and wait for the compiler to complete its work.



3) HOW TO INSTALL XBATTLE

 Once xbattle has been compiled ...

 To install the program, the man page, the example files, tutorials,
 and the Gauntlet Campaign type:
   % make install

 You may also skip installation and run xbattle directly from the compile
 directory.

 There are a few items which you may wish to check at this time.
 
  (A) Make sure that the install "bin" directory is in your command
      path as set in your dot files (.cshrc, .profile, .tcshrc,
      .bashrc, .zshrc, etc.).
      If you use csh or tcsh type:
        % rehash

  (B) Make sure that the install "man" directory in in your MANPATH.
      This is an environmental variable which is set in your dot files.

  (C) Update the abbreviated man page index (apropos or man -k).  On most
      systems this can be done with:
        % catman -w

  (D) You may wish to setup a personal xbattle preferences file.
      (a) Edit xbattle.dot as appropriate
      (b) Type "cp xbattle.dot ~your_login/.xbattle"



4) HOW TO RUN XBATTLE

 One xbattle has been installed ...
 
 If you are new to the game, try running the tutorials:
   % xb_tutorial1
   % xb_tutorial2

 Try playing a short game against AI1:
   % xbattle -red you -blue me -ai 1 1 0.5 -rbases 3 -hex -sea 3 -hills 5

 Try playing against two opponents:
   % xb_example

 For a list of all the command-line options you can experiment with, run:
   % xbattle -help

 Try playing the GAULTLET CAMPAIGN:
   % xb_gauntletCampaign


 We hope you enjoy playing!

